how I went from selling $500 websites
right up to 50K plus sites it's time to
learn from my
mistake hey I'm Sam Dunning coowner over
at web choice.com and here the top 100
B2B marketing podcast business growth
show and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly email where I'm sharing actual
webite marketing tips useful podcasts
goodies resources and more each and
every Monday kicking off your week with
a bang why not give it a shot over at
businessgrowth doil time for a quick
story so when I first started selling
websites and digital marketing
strategies some time ago we initially
wanted to sell to almost everyone and
anyone and to be honest when you're
first in business it's not always the
worst thing but it does get stressful
and it does get quite painful so
initially we pick up businesses from
referral from utilizing our existing
Network maybe friends maybe family maybe
on LinkedIn maybe someone SEO all sorts
of different ways to get these clients
but a lot of them were very very small
businesses they didn't have much money
to spend on a website and what we found
is that we'd actually get really really
stressed out with building the projects
because quite often we found the
cheapest projects were actually the
hardest work clients wanted a lot of
revisions so end up taking way more time
than the actual cash flow was worth it
but we needed it to start off off with
to actually get cash running in the
business get cash flow up we also wanted
to collect testimonials reviews and case
studies so we could actually have that
social proof actually give other
prospective customers confidence in what
we
do so this carried on for some time and
as I mentioned we are taking on all
kinds of different clients mainly small
businesses that necessarily didn't have
too much to invest in their site but we
were collecting testimonials and we were
getting some cash flow until we got to
the point where we realized we needed to
change who we marketed to who we were
trying to attract as clients customers
to our business so this is the first
recommendation now in our case we
realized that the companies that we did
the best work for when it came to
websites when it came to SEO were
typically B2B companies they had a
decent sized Salesforce and they
appreciated that when done right their
website was their best salesperson to
generate a steady flow leads inbound
inquiries for their sales team to follow
up and do demos do consults with
whatever their process is and get closed
Revenue with so we started doubling down
on that in terms of how we marketed so
in terms of the LinkedIn content that I
put out each day in terms of this
podcast business growth show in terms of
where we position our ads in terms of
our SEO strategy so making sure we're
focusing on ideal clients so B2B
businesses that have got a sales team
that want to ramp up leads through their
website with SEO or they want to turn
their website into their best sales rep
and then looking at who actually
typically buys these things so in our
case it might be marketing directors
Chief marketing officers or similar so
think about that for your business
really so who are some of the best
clients that you've got already that you
really enjoy working with that you can
provide Great Value to making sure you
give a service that actually drive real
tangible business results and they've
actually got cash to invest to make sure
it's profitable work for both you and
them and then once you realize that
industry let's say maybe you provide CRM
or similar software perhaps a great
Niche is the agricultural industry how
can you make sure you're fine-tuning
your marketing to them so maybe it's
targeted LinkedIn ads maybe it's SEO
that's relevant to the agricultural CRM
keyword maybe it's the way you position
yourself on this different social media
maybe it's how you do YouTube and your
podcast Etc so really drill down to who
is this Niche that's got cash to spend
that can get Great Value from our
product that we want to focus on and
that's going to grow our business and
grow revenue and gear your positioning
your branding your marketing towards
that so you can start getting ideal
clients profitably for your business for
the longer
term so point one was all about exactly
who you Market to and how you position
your company to attract the right type
of clients to Market to the right type
of clients that are actually going to
grow your business and grow your Revenue
point two which we're jumping into now
is all about the engine in which you're
going to attract and convert these
prospects into potential customers for
many B2B businesses this is their
website or it could be something
different if you're a more traditional
industry it might be trade shows events
or something else similar or some type
of funnel email nurturing whatever
but let me paint a picture for you so
let's say for example you've been saving
for a long time and you want to get
yourself a nice luxury car so you walk
into the dealership as soon as you plant
your foot on the floor it starts
sticking you're thinking what the heck
is going on theyve got horrible sticky
floors nonetheless we'll carry on we'll
see what they've got to off you walk in
a bit further you start looking at some
of the cars you think they got pretty
dirty they hav't been washed in ages the
windows are all unclean they really do
not look great
then you try to attract the attention of
a sales rep they're all talking amongst
each other completely ignoring you
having a laugh having a joke and not
doing anything to even try and have a
consultation or discussion with you it's
going to be a terrible first impression
it's going to leave a sour taste in your
mouth and now if we flip that to most
B2B marketing B2B business rathers
engine which is their website if your
website gives a terrible first
impression it's not going to be a useful
tool to drive inbound opportunities to
your business and it needs to be
tailored to the right type of audience
so for example if you're dealing with a
very corporate type of audience and you
want them to invest a significant amount
into a big ticket piece of software
let's say to buy from your business you
need to make sure it's crafted to
attract and build trust with them so the
imagery the tone of voice the text the
way it's designed the way it's presented
all needs to appeal to that Right
audience or like if you're on a complete
different type of market and maybe it's
more of a fun more of a younger
demographic likewise it needs to be
crafted for them so this is where things
like bio research come in super handy so
as soon as someone lands on your site
you're using the right type of messaging
you're talking to the problems that they
really care about fixing you're talking
about the value they bring to the table
how you're going to leverage your
benefits your features of your services
your products to fix these problems
you're backing up everything with
relevant social proof case studies
you're actually designing it to this
ideal client's taste that you want to
attract so again going back if we're
looking at a corporate client nice maybe
Financial imagery luxury imagery making
sure the fonts are on point the color
schemes are on point it's super easy to
navigate it looks slick it runs fast
it's a welled machine and it's building
trust with this Prospect and making it
nice and easy for them to convert to
book that conso book that demo whatever
that next step is so so my main point
here is whatever engine you're using to
attract and convert to capture these
prospects into leads opportunities for
your sales team whether it's your
website whether it is some kind of trade
event whether it's something else it
needs to be built with this audience in
mind rather than just putting out
something generic it needs to be
tailored to them especially if you're
looking to sell these high ticket items
it needs to really attract them with
relevant design that's well researched
with copy that actually speaks to their
problem s their goals their aspirations
needs to have relevant case studies
testimonials reviews that back it up and
be nice and slick and easy for them to
get in touch with you and make that next
step and then the last Point here is
having a solid sales process that either
your sales team follow or if you're
running the sales for your company that
yourself you follow so as an example
when I first started selling websites
and SEO I'd let the customer do all the
Talking they'd basically tell me what
was going to happen they'd say send me a
proposal and I'd just listen to them
blindly but typically for Big Ticket
items whether that's websites or
something else you're normally going to
need a couple phone conversations or
video conversations or meetings before
these deals close it's rarely that when
someone's investing thousands and
thousands of dollars or pounds that
things just close with a click of a
fingers so I recommend getting a sales
process for yourself or team whether
that's gap selling s selling medic spin
selling or something else doesn't really
matter which as long as you've got a
process you follow consistently that
brings consistent measurable results so
for example in our case what I learned
about was setting first off a discovery
call so if a lead comes in through our
website and in our case we set up
qualification tools on our website so
things like we share a rough idea of
pricing a process so we get tons of
leads that can't afford what we do so we
set up initial Discovery call which I'd
recommend for kind of medium and Big
Ticket B2B Services anyway and that way
we'll get a good idea of what the
prospect came to us what the reason why
they approached us how they found us the
pain points the problems that they're
facing right now what their current
situation is where they want to get to
in the next 6 months 12 months and the
main outcomes that they want to get to
why they've decided to do it now what
was that Tipping Point why is it so
important they want to do it now um
things like their timelines any
reference projects any other ideas so we
can get a full idea of the spec from A
to Z we can also ask who else is
involved in this decision process what
other teammates are involved whether
that's other SE Suite members managers
Etc so we can get a full scope of the
idea and also understand their budget
just confirm they've got enough funding
to work with us and once we've got a
good idea and we've established if
they're a good fit or we've we've said
look with part ways for now but we'll
keep in touch with future projects if
either of us thinks there's not a good
fit well after that Discovery call you
typically set up a demo call or
presentation call depending on what type
of business you are and that's where you
can invite all the key decision makers
from the company to sit down with
yourself and anyone else relevant from
your team and then recap things like
these were the main pain points that
you're facing right now these are the
key goals and moving on to this is how
our Solutions going to attack each one
of those pain points and each one of
those key goals this is the pricing the
investment options that are relevant to
what you need this is the time frame of
implementation and then go through next
steps based on everything we discussed
doesn't make sense to move forward move
ahead with project so you can get either
sign off or a no as to whether they're
moving forward you with you so having a
solid process that you can consistently
put into play for initial Discovery and
presentations or demos is worth its
weigh in Gold especially when it comes
to selling higher ticket items so to
recap
everything at the start of your journey
there's nothing wrong with selling low
value items building up some cash flow
building up case studies reviews
testimonials I've been there we did that
exact same thing with web Choice then
what you want to realize is who exactly
do we want to be working with and what
sectors they fall in what typical job
titles Industries are they in so then
you can tailor your marketing towards
them understand what the channels they
hang out on are they on LinkedIn are
they searching on Google is SEO Google
ads worth it are they listening to
podcasts are they consuming YouTube
videos are they somewhere else
understand where they're hanging out
craft your messaging to resonate with
them understand their key pain points
their frustrations and their goals so
you can make sure that messaging the ads
the content the copy the videos the
production you put out the media you put
out in front of them is going to
resonate is actually going to hit home
and it's going to make them want to take
some kind of next step with you whether
is checking out your website landing
page whatever and then make sure your
engine if that is your website or
something else is geared towards them
the design has them in mind bearing in
mind what they care about in terms of
the copy the content again leveraging
problems frustrations social proof and
making sure it's designed with them in
mind the look and feel is really going
to engage and attract them and it's
going to encourage them to take that
next step book that cool book that demo
with yourselves team and then making
sure you've got that solid sales process
in place to again qualify the Prospect
and then if it makes sense through the
next step that demo that presentation
call to then bring in that high ticket
deal and there you have it I hope you
found my learnings useful from where we
started at lowbudget projects and why
that's not necessarily a bad thing at
all right up to selling SEO and website
projects for several thousand dolls or
pounds has been helpful and interesting
to you today as always if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick rating and
review on your audio podcast Channel
goes a long way or a quick subscribe on
YouTube means to world and with that I
should catch you on the next one cheers